Support export `Trace` and `Log` through Kafka. (#9817)
apache/skywalking: docs/en/setup/backend/exporter.md

# Exporter

> SkyWalking provides the essential functions of metrics aggregation, trace, log, alarm, and analysis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SkyWalking provides the essential functions of observability, including metrics aggregation, trace, log, alerting, and profiling.
```

In many real-world scenarios, users may want to forward their data to a 3rd party system for further in-depth analysis.
**Exporter** has made that possible.

The exporter is an independent module that has to be manually activated.

Right now, we provide the following exporters:
1. gRPC Exporter
- Metrics
2. Kafka Exporter
- Trace

> - Log

Reviewer: Please add `in-page` links to the parts of the doc.

## gRPC Exporter
### Metrics gRPC Exporter

> Metrics gRPC exporter uses SkyWalking's native exporter service definition. Here is the proto definition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Metrics gRPC exporter uses SkyWalking's native export service definition. Here is the proto definition.
```

```proto
service MetricExportService {
    rpc export (stream ExportMetricValue) returns (ExportResponse) {
    }

    rpc subscription (SubscriptionReq) returns (SubscriptionsResp) {
    }
}

message ExportMetricValue {
    string metricName = 1;
    string entityName = 2;
    string entityId = 3;
    ValueType type = 4;
    int64 timeBucket = 5;
    int64 longValue = 6;
    double doubleValue = 7;
    repeated int64 longValues = 8;
}

message SubscriptionsResp {
    repeated SubscriptionMetric metrics = 1;
}

message SubscriptionMetric {
    string metricName = 1;
    EventType eventType = 2;
}

enum ValueType {
    LONG = 0;
    DOUBLE = 1;
    MULTI_LONG = 2;
}

enum EventType {
    // The metrics aggregated in this bulk, not include the existing persistent data.
    INCREMENT = 0;
    // Final result of the metrics at this moment.
    TOTAL = 1;
}

message SubscriptionReq {

}

message ExportResponse {
}
```

> To activate the exporter, you should add this into your `application.yml`

Reviewer: I believe this is copied from the previous doc. We should adjust words. These configurations exist in the YAML file already, we should say `you should set xxx to true to activate yyy`.

Reviewer: Same suggestions for trace and log exporter configurations.

[SkyWalking data collect protocol#Tracing.proto](https://github.com/apache/skywalking-data-collect-protocol/blob/master/language-agent/Tracing.proto).
```proto
// The segment is a collection of spans. It includes all collected spans in a simple one request context, such as a HTTP request process.
message SegmentObject {
    string traceId = 1;
    string traceSegmentId = 2;
    repeated SpanObject spans = 3;
    string service = 4;
    string serviceInstance = 5;
    bool isSizeLimited = 6;
}
```

To activate the exporter, you should add this into your `application.yml`
```yaml
exporter:
  default:
    # Kafka exporter
    enableKafkaTrace: ${SW_EXPORTER_ENABLE_KAFKA_TRACE:true}
    kafkaBootstrapServers: ${SW_EXPORTER_KAFKA_SERVERS:localhost:9092}
    # Kafka producer config, JSON format as Properties.
    kafkaProducerConfig: ${SW_EXPORTER_KAFKA_PRODUCER_CONFIG:""}
    kafkaTopicTrace: ${SW_EXPORTER_KAFKA_TOPIC_TRACE:skywalking-trace}
    ...
```

### Log Kafka Exporter
Log kafka exporter pushes messages to the Kafka Broker and Topic `skywalking-log` to export the log. Here is the message:
```
ProducerRecord<String, Bytes>
Key: LogRecordId

> Value: Bytes of LogData

Reviewer: @kezhenxu94 @Superskyyy I remember there was a discussion on Python agent, mentioning the encode in Python proto is UTF-16, rather than Java's UTF-8? Could you confirm that? If so, we should mention the encoding format.

Reviewer 2: I don't recalI encoding problems on the Python side (protobuf), if you are referring to this [discussion](https://github.com/apache/skywalking/issues/8794) it seems unrelated. So we are good.
